Performance Testing
## What is Performance Testing?
Performance testing is defined as type of Non-functional software testing.
The goal of performance testing to eliminate performance bottlenecks.
The main focus of performance testing is : 1.Speed
                                                                    2.Scalability
                                                                    3.Stability.
Performance testing is popularly called "Perf Testing".

## Why do performance testing?
Answer: Performance testing determine Speed, Scalability and stability of the software under
heavy workload.
## Types of performance testing
**Load Testing**-Load testing checks the application's ability to perform under anticipated user loads.

**Stress Testing**-Stress testing involves testing an application under extreme work loads to see how it handles high traffic.
(Check the maximum number of user that the application can handle before it crashes)

 **Endurance Testing**-Endurance testing is done to make sure the software can handle expected load over a long period of time.
(Check database execution time when 500 records are read/write simultaneously )

**Spike testing**-Spike testing tests the software's reaction to sudden large spikes in the generated by the users.
(Verify response time of application under low, normal, moderate and heavy load conditions)

**Volume Testing**-Under volume testing large number of data populated in the database and overall software behavior is monitored.

## Performance Testing Process
- Identify Test Environment.
- Plan and Design Tests.
- Identify Performance acceptance criteria.
- Configure Test Environment.
- Implement Test Design.
- Execute Tests.
- Analyze and Report



## Example of Performance Test Cases
- Verify response time is not more than 4 secs when 1000 users access the application.(stress testing)
- Verify response time of the application under load is within an acceptable range when the network connection slow.(Stress testing)
- Check the maximum number of user that the application can handle before it crashes.(Stress Test)
- Check database execution time when 500 records are read/write simultaneously.(endurance testing)
- Check CPU and memory usage of the application and database server under peak load conditions.(load testing)
- Verify response time of application under low, normal, moderate and heavy load conditions.(Spike testing)

## JMeter
  The Apache JMeter application is open source software, a 100% pure Java application designed to load test functional behavior and measure performance.
  
## Common Elements Of JMeter
There are mainly four common elements of JMeter.

- Thread, 
- Samplers, 
- Listeners, 
- Configuration.
## Thread Group
Thread Group contains multiple threads. Each Thread represents one user using the application under test. Each thread basically simulates one call user request to the server. Thread count=User.

The controls for a thread group allow you to set the number of threads for each group.
For example, if you set the number of threads as 100;Jmeter will create and simulate 100 user request to the server under test.
## Creating First Test in JMeter
- Step 1: Start JMeter.
- Step 2: Create a New Test Plan.
- Step 3: Create a Thread Group(Users).
- Step 4: Add a Sampler(HTTP). Such as took an url https://www.pavanonlinetrainings.com.
                On the request the url will be divided.
                On Protocol it will be http or https.
                On the Server Name or ID , it will be the rest of the part of url. as like www.pavanonlinetrainings.com
                 On the path, which module you want to test .Such as Login it will be Login.html  , for                      about page it will be about.html.
- Step 5: Add Listeners.
- Step 6: Save Test Plan.
- Step 7: Run Test Plan.(Go to Thread Group and Run the test).

